ORMs (Object-Relational Mappers)
Definition: ORMs are libraries that allow developers to interact with a database using an 
object-oriented paradigm instead of writing raw SQL queries. They map database tables to 
classes in your programming language, making it easier to perform database operations using 
familiar programming constructs.

Advantages of Using ORMs:

Abstraction: ORMs abstract the complexity of SQL, allowing developers to use a more 
intuitive object-oriented syntax. This can reduce the likelihood of SQL injection 
vulnerabilities if used correctly.

Productivity: By using methods provided by the ORM, developers can perform complex queries 
and operations without writing extensive SQL code, which can speed up development time.

Cross-Database Compatibility: Many ORMs support multiple databases (like PostgreSQL, MySQL, 
SQLite, etc.), allowing developers to switch databases without major changes to the 
codebase.

Easier Maintenance: Changes to the database schema can be managed more easily through the 
ORMâ€™s model definitions, making the code cleaner and more maintainable.

Built-in Features: ORMs often provide built-in features for relationships, validations, 
migrations, and more, which can save time and effort in managing data.

Why use Joi

Benefits of Using Joi for Validation
Input Validation:

Joi allows you to define schemas that specify the expected structure and type of incoming 
data. This ensures that user input meets specific criteria before it is processed or stored 
in the database.

For example, you can check that an email is in the correct format, that passwords meet 
certain complexity requirements, or that required fields are present.

Early Error Handling:

By validating input before it reaches your database, you can catch errors early in the 
request processing cycle. This can help improve user experience by providing immediate 
feedback when input does not meet validation criteria.

Security Enhancement:

While ORMs help prevent SQL injection, validation further secures your application by 
ensuring that only properly structured and sanitized data is processed. This reduces the 
risk of other types of attacks (e.g., XSS or invalid data processing).

Maintainability:

Defining a clear validation schema can make your code more maintainable and easier to 
understand. It provides a single source of truth for the expected data format, making it 
easier for other developers (or yourself in the future) to know what to expect from user 
input.

Custom Validation:

Joi allows for custom validation rules, enabling you to implement complex validation logic 
tailored to your specific application needs.